Data analysis exists to help overcome these challenges and pain points, 
ultimately assisting businesses in finding insights and uncovering hidden value 
in troves of data through storytelling.
Data analysis is the process of identifying, cleaning, transforming, and modeling data to discover 
meaningful and useful information. The data is then crafted into a story through reports for analysis to 
support the critical decision-making process.

To analyze data, core components of analytics are divided into the following categories:
1. Descriptive.
  Descriptive analytics help answer questions about what has happened based on historical data. 
  Descriptive analytics techniques summarize large datasets to describe outcomes to stakeholders.
2. Diagnostic.
  Diagnostic analytics help answer questions about why events happened. Diagnostic analytics 
  techniques supplement basic descriptive analytics, and they use the findings from descriptive 
  analytics to discover the cause of these events.Then, performance indicators are further investigated to 
  discover why these events improved or became worse. Generally, this process occurs in three steps:

  Identify anomalies in the data. These anomalies might be unexpected changes in a metric or a particular market.
  Collect data that's related to these anomalies.
  Use statistical techniques to discover relationships and trends that explain these anomalies.
3. Predictive.
  Predictive analytics help answer questions about what will happen in the future. Predictive analytics techniques
  use historical data to identify trends and determine if they're likely to recur. Predictive analytical tools provide 
  valuable insight into what might happen in the future. Techniques include a variety of statistical and machine 
  learning techniques such as neural networks, decision trees, and regression.
4. Prescriptive.
  Prescriptive analytics help answer questions about which actions should be taken to achieve a goal or target. 
  By using insights from prescriptive analytics, organizations can make data-driven decisions. This technique allows 
  businesses to make informed decisions in the face of uncertainty. 
5. Cognitive.
  Cognitive analytics attempt to draw inferences from existing data and patterns, derive conclusions based on existing 
  knowledge bases, and then add these findings back into the knowledge base for future inferences, a self-learning 
  feedback loop. Cognitive analytics help you learn what might happen if circumstances change and determine how you 
  might handle these situations.

The following sections highlight these different roles in data and the specific responsibility in the o
verall spectrum of data discovery and understanding:
Business analyst
A business analyst is closer to the business and is a specialist in interpreting the data that comes from the visualization. 
Often, the roles of data analyst and business analyst could be the responsibility of a single person.
Data analyst
Data engineer
Data scientist
Database administrator


